<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="applying-manifest-blocks"><title>Applying manifest blocks</title><prolog><author>Kate Lopresti &lt;kate.lopresti@puppet.com\&gt;</author></prolog><body><p>Within a plan, you can use Bolt to apply blocks of Puppet code \(manifest blocks\) to remote nodes. </p><p>Similar to the <codeph>puppet apply</codeph> command, which applies a standalone Puppet manifest to a local system, the Bolt <codeph>apply</codeph> command leverages manifest blocks to pass code to remote nodes from the command line. You can create manifest blocks that use existing content from the Forge, or mix declarative resource configuration via manifest blocks with procedural orchestration and action in a plan. Most features of the Puppet language are available in a manifest block: classes, custom resource types, and functions. For information about what language features aren't supported, see <xref href="applying_manifest_blocks.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Manifest block limitations</xref>.</p><p><b>Tip:</b> If you installed Bolt as a Ruby gem, make sure you have installed the core modules required to use the <codeph>puppet apply</codeph> command. These modules are listed in the <xref href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/bolt/blob/master/Puppetfile" format="html" scope="external">Bolt GitHub repository</xref>and you can install them using a Puppetfile.</p><p><b>Related information</b></p><p><xref href="bolt_installing_modules.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Configure Bolt to download and install modules</xref></p><p><xref href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/bolt/blob/master/Puppetfile" format="html" scope="external">Puppetfile example</xref></p><p><xref href="https://forge.puppet.com/" format="html" scope="external">Puppet Forge</xref></p></body><topic id="how-manifest-blocks-are-applied"><title>How manifest blocks are applied</title><body><p>When you run a plan that contains a manifest block, the <codeph>apply_prep</codeph> function installs the packages necessary to run the Bolt <codeph>apply</codeph> command.</p><p>The <codeph>apply_prep</codeph> function identifies the nodes that do not have Puppet agents and runs the <codeph>puppet_agent::install</codeph> task \(from the <xref href="https://forge.puppet.com/puppetlabs/puppet_agent" format="html" scope="external">puppet\_agent module</xref>\). It also copies over custom facts from the Bolt modulepath and runs <xref href="https://puppet.com/docs/facter/latest/" format="html" scope="external">facter</xref> on the target nodes.</p><p>Behind the scenes, Bolt compiles the code in your manifest block \(the code wrapped in curly braces that follows the <codeph>apply</codeph> function\) into a catalog. Code is compiled in the following order:</p><ul><li><p>Facts gathered from the targets or set in your inventory.</p></li><li><p>Local variables in the plan, such as <codeph>$site_content.</codeph></p></li><li><p><xref href="inventory_file.md#title-1541705359297" format="dita"><codeph>Vars</codeph></xref> set in your inventory.</p></li></ul><p>Like the code compiled with the <codeph>puppet apply</codeph> function, all the variables are generated. As a result, you can reuse code between Bolt and Puppet. Bolt then copies custom module content from the Bolt modulepath to the target nodes and applies the catalog using Puppet.</p><p>After the catalog compiles and is executed successfully on all targets, <codeph>apply</codeph> returns the reports generated by applying the catalog on each node.</p></body><topic id="options-for-apply-action"><title>Options for Apply action</title><body><p>The <codeph>apply</codeph> action supports the following options:</p><ul><li><p><codeph>_catch_errors =&gt; true</codeph> returns a <codeph>ResultSet</codeph> including failed results, rather than failing the plan.</p></li><li><p><codeph>_noop =&gt; true</codeph> applies the manifest block in Puppet no-operation mode, returning a report of the changes it would make, but takes no action.</p></li><li><p><codeph>_run_as =&gt; &lt;USER&gt;</codeph> applies the manifest block as the specified user. \(This option is for transports that allow a user to run commands under a different username.\)</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve"># Preview installing docker as root on $nodes.
apply($nodes, _catch_errors =&gt; true, _noop =&gt; true, _run_as =&gt; root) {
   include 'docker'
}</codeblock></li></ul></body></topic><topic id="return-value-of-apply-action"><title>Return value of Apply action</title><body><p>The <codeph>apply</codeph> action returns an object type <codeph>ResultSet</codeph> that contains <codeph>ApplyResult</codeph> object for each target. For more information on the methods you can call on <codeph>$result</codeph>, see <xref href="writing_plans.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Handling plan function results</xref>.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">$results = apply($nodes) { ... }
$results.each |$result| {
   notice($result.report)
}</codeblock></body></topic><topic id="configuring-concurrency"><title>Configuring concurrency</title><body><p>Each target requires a separate catalog be compiled with its unique facts and <codeph>Vars</codeph>. The apply action compiles and applies catalogs in parallel on the Bolt host. Concurrency of catalog compilation is controlled by a <codeph>compile-concurrency</codeph> config option. This option is limited to twice the number of threads your CPU can run concurrently. Catalog application, on the other hand, uses the Bolt default thread pool controlled by the <codeph>concurrency</codeph> option.</p></body></topic></topic><topic id="using-hiera-data-in-a-manifest-block"><title>Using Hiera data in a manifest block</title><body><p>Use Hiera to separate configuration from context-specific data, where context may be fact-based or the name of a target.</p><p><b>Note:</b> Only Hiera version 5 is supported in Bolt.</p><p>Hiera is a key-value configuration data lookup system, used for separating data from Puppet code. You use Hiera data to implicitly override default class parameters. You can also explicitly lookup data from Hiera via lookup, for example:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">plan do_thing() {
  apply('localhost') {
    notice("Some data in Hiera: ${lookup('mydata')}")
  }
}</codeblock><p>Manifest block compilation can access Hiera data that you add to your Bolt configuration. The default location for Hiera config is <codeph>$BOLTDIR/hiera.yaml</codeph>; you can change this with the <codeph>hiera-config</codeph>key in a Bolt config file.</p><p>Following the Hiera 5 convention, the default data dir is relative to <codeph>hiera.yaml</codeph> at <codeph>$BOLTDIR/data</codeph>. For config file examples, see <xref href="https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/hiera_config_yaml_5.html" format="html" scope="external">Configuring Hiera</xref>.</p><p>If a custom data provider is used \(such as <codeph>hiera-eyaml</codeph>, which allows you to encrypt your data\) the gem dependencies must be available to Bolt. See <xref href="bolt_installing.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Install gems with Bolt packages</xref>.</p><p><b>Related information</b></p><p><xref href="configuring_bolt.md" format="dita" type="topic">Configuring Bolt</xref></p></body></topic><topic id="available-plan-functions"><title>Available plan functions</title><body><p>In addition to the standard Puppet functions available to a catalog, such as <codeph>lookup</codeph>, you can use the following Bolt functions in a manifest block.</p><ul><li><p><codeph>[puppetdb\_query](plan_functions.md#)</codeph></p></li><li><p><codeph>[puppetdb\_facts](plan_functions.md#)</codeph></p></li><li><p><codeph>[get\_targets](plan_functions.md#)</codeph></p></li><li><p><codeph>[facts](plan_functions.md#)</codeph></p></li><li><p><codeph>[vars](plan_functions.md#)</codeph></p></li></ul></body></topic><topic id="manifest-block-limitations"><title>Manifest block limitations</title><body><p>Exported resources are not supported in manifest blocks. You must pass exported resources directly instead of exporting and collecting them from PuppetDB. If you need to interact with resources managed during a normal run, use the function <codeph>puppetdb_query</codeph>.</p><p>In addition, the following top-level variables, which exist in normal catalog compilation, are not included during manifest block compilation:</p><ul><li><p><codeph>$server_facts</codeph></p></li><li><p>master variables like <codeph>$servername</codeph></p></li><li><p>$<codeph>environment</codeph></p></li></ul><p>You can optionally set these from a target's <codeph>vars</codeph>, but they don't have defaults in Bolt.</p><p><b>Related information</b></p><p><xref href="plan_functions.md#" format="dita" type="topic">puppetdb\_query</xref></p></body></topic><topic id="create-a-sample-manifest-for-nginx-on-linux"><title>Create a sample manifest for nginx on Linux</title><body><p>Create a manifest that sets up a web server with nginx, and run it as a plan.</p><ol><li><p>Go to the <codeph>site-modules</codeph> directory in the default Bolt project directory: <codeph>~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules</codeph></p></li><li><p>Create a module named profiles.</p><ul><li><p>If you use the Puppet Development Kit: <codeph>pdk new module profiles</codeph></p></li><li><p>Otherwise create <codeph>~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules/profiles</codeph></p></li></ul></li><li><p>Add a <codeph>plans</codeph> directory to the profiles module.</p></li><li><p>In the plans directory, create a manifest file called nginx\_install.pp and add the following code:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">plan profiles::nginx_install(
     TargetSpec $nodes,
     String $site_content = 'hello!',
   ) {

     # Install the puppet-agent package if Puppet is not detected.
     # Copy over custom facts from the Bolt modulepath.
     # Run the `facter` command line tool to gather node information.
     $nodes.apply_prep

     # Compile the manifest block into a catalog
     apply($nodes) {
       if($facts['os']['family'] == 'redhat') {
         package { 'epel-release':
           ensure =&gt; present,
           before =&gt; Package['nginx'],
         }
         $html_dir = '/usr/share/nginx/html'
       } else {
         $html_dir = '/var/www/html'
       }

       package {'nginx':
         ensure =&gt; present,
       }

       file {"${html_dir}/index.html":
         content =&gt; $site_content,
         ensure  =&gt; file,
       }

       service {'nginx':
         ensure  =&gt; 'running',
         enable  =&gt; 'true',
         require =&gt; Package['nginx']
       }
     }
   }</codeblock></li><li><p>Run the plan on a target node:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt plan run profiles::nginx_install --nodes mynode.mydomain</codeblock></li><li><p>In a web browser, open <codeph>mynode.mydomain</codeph></p><p>The page displays the text <b>hello!</b></p></li></ol><p><b>Tip:</b> For complex web server deployments, consider adding the <xref href="https://forge.puppet.com/puppet/nginx" format="html" scope="external">puppet-nginx</xref> module.</p><p><b>Related information</b></p><p><xref href="https://www.nginx.com/resources/glossary/nginx/" format="html" scope="external">NGINX</xref></p><p><xref href="bolt_options.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Specify target nodes</xref></p><p><xref href="bolt_project_directories.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Project directories</xref></p></body></topic><topic id="create-a-sample-manifest-for-iis-on-windows"><title>Create a sample manifest for IIS on Windows</title><body><p>Create a manifest that sets up a web server with IIS and run it as a plan.</p><ol><li><p>Go to the <codeph>site-modules</codeph> directory in the default Bolt project directory: <codeph>~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules</codeph></p></li><li><p>Create a module named profiles.</p><ul><li><p>If you use the Puppet Development Kit: <codeph>pdk new module profiles</codeph></p></li><li><p>Otherwise create <codeph>~/.puppetlabs/bolt/site-modules/profiles</codeph></p></li></ul></li><li><p>Add a <codeph>plans</codeph> directory to the profiles module.</p></li><li><p>Install the IIS dependencies.</p><ol><li><p>Add the following code to <codeph>~/.puppetlabs/bolt/Puppetfile</codeph></p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">forge 'http://forge.puppetlabs.com'
mod 'puppetlabs-iis', '4.3.2'
mod 'profiles', local: true</codeblock></li><li><p>Run <codeph>bolt puppetfile install</codeph></p></li></ol></li><li><p>In the plans directory, create a manifest file called iis\_install.pp and add the following code:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">plan profiles::iis_install(
     TargetSpec $nodes,
     String $site_content = 'hello!',
   ) {

     # Install the puppet-agent package if Puppet is not detected. 
     # Copy over custom facts from the Bolt modulepath.
     # Run the `facter` command line tool to gather node information.
     $nodes.apply_prep

     # Compile the manifest block into a catalog
     return apply($nodes, '_catch_errors' =&gt; true) {
       $iis_features = ['Web-WebServer','Web-Scripting-Tools']

       iis_feature { $iis_features:
         ensure =&gt; 'present',
       }

       # Delete the default website to prevent a port binding conflict.
       iis_site {'Default Web Site':
         ensure  =&gt; absent,
         require =&gt; Iis_feature['Web-WebServer'],
       }

       iis_site { 'minimal':
         ensure          =&gt; 'started',
         physicalpath    =&gt; 'c:\\inetpub\\minimal',
         applicationpool =&gt; 'DefaultAppPool',
         require         =&gt; [
           File['minimal'],
           Iis_site['Default Web Site']
         ],
       }

       file { 'minimal':
         ensure =&gt; 'directory',
         path   =&gt; 'c:\\inetpub\\minimal',
       }

       file { 'content':
         ensure  =&gt; 'file',
         path    =&gt; 'c:\\inetpub\\minimal\\index.html',
         content =&gt; $site_content,
       }
     }
   }</codeblock></li><li><p>Run the plan on a target node:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt plan run profiles::iis_install --nodes mynode.mydomain --transport winrm</codeblock></li><li><p>In a web browser, open <codeph>mynode.mydomain</codeph></p><p>The page displays the text <b>hello!</b></p></li></ol><p><b>Related information</b></p><p><xref href="https://www.iis.net" format="html" scope="external">IIS</xref></p><p><xref href="bolt_options.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Specify target nodes</xref></p><p><xref href="bolt_project_directories.md#" format="dita" type="topic">Project directories</xref></p></body></topic><topic id="using-puppet-device-modules-from-an-apply-statement"><title>Using Puppet device modules from an apply statement</title><body><p>Puppet device modules based on remote transports allow network devices and other targets that can't run a Puppetagent to be managed from a proxy.</p><p><b>Note:</b> Support for device modules is experimental and might change in future minor \(y\) releases.</p><p>To use device modules from an apply statement, the devices must be added to the Bolt inventory as remote targets. The <codeph>name</codeph> of the target will be used to auto-populate the <codeph>name</codeph>, <codeph>uri</codeph>, <codeph>user</codeph>, <codeph>password</codeph>, <codeph>host</codeph>, and <codeph>port</codeph> fields of the remote transport's connnection info. You must set the <codeph>remote-transport</codeph> option and any other connnection info under the <codeph>remote</codeph> section of config.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">---
nodes:
  - name: "https://username:password@panos-device.example.com"
    config:
      transport: remote
      remote:
       remote-transport: panos</codeblock><p>When you set the <codeph>run-on</codeph> option with a device module, the puppet-resource\_api gem be must installed with the puppet agent on the proxy target and it must be version 1.8.1 or later.</p></body></topic></topic>