<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="running-basic-bolt-commands"><title>Running basic Bolt commands</title><prolog><author>Jean Bond &lt;jean@puppet.com\&gt;</author></prolog><body><p>Use Bolt commands to connect directly to the systems where you want to execute commands, run scripts, and upload files.</p><p><b>Parent topic:</b><xref href="running_bolt.md" format="dita" type="topic">Using Bolt commands</xref></p></body><topic id="run-a-command-on-remote-nodes"><title>Run a command on remote nodes</title><body><p>Specify the command you want to run and which nodes to run it on.</p><p>When you have credentials on remote systems, you can use Bolt to run commands across those systems.</p><ul><li><p>To run a command on a list of nodes:</p></li></ul><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt command run &lt;COMMAND&gt; --nodes &lt;NODE NAME&gt;,&lt;NODE NAME&gt;,&lt;NODE NAME&gt;</codeblock><ul><li><p>To run a command on WinRM nodes, indicate the WinRM protocol in the nodes string:</p></li></ul><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt command run &lt;COMMAND&gt; --nodes winrm://&lt;WINDOWS.NODE&gt; --user &lt;USERNAME&gt; --password &lt;PASSWORD&gt;</codeblock><ul><li><p>To run a command that contains spaces or shell special characters, wrap the command in single quotation marks:</p></li></ul><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt command run 'echo $HOME' --nodes web5.mydomain.edu,web6.mydomain.edu</codeblock><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt command run "netstat -an | grep 'tcp.*LISTEN'" --nodes web5.mydomain.edu,web6.mydomain.edu</codeblock><ul><li><p>To run a cross-platform command:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt command run "echo 'hello world'"</codeblock><p><b>Note:</b> When connecting to Bolt hosts over WinRM that have not configured SSL for port 5986, passing the <codeph>--no-ssl</codeph> switch is required to connect to the default WinRM port 5985.</p></li></ul></body></topic><topic id="running-commands-with-redirection-or-pipes"><title>Running commands with redirection or pipes</title><body><p>When you run one-line commands that include redirection or pipes, pass <codeph>bash</codeph> or another shell as the command.</p><p>Using a shell ensures that the one-liner is run as a single command and that it works correctly with <codeph>run-as</codeph>. For example, instead of <codeph>bolt command run "echo foo &gt; /root/foo" --run-as root</codeph>, use <codeph>bolt command run "bash -c 'echo foo &gt; /root/foo'" --run-as root</codeph>.</p></body></topic><topic id="run-a-script-on-remote-nodes"><title>Run a script on remote nodes</title><body><p>Specify the script you want to run and which nodes to run it on.</p><p>Use the <codeph>bolt script run</codeph> command to run existing scripts that you use or to combine the commands that you regularly run as part of sequence. When you run a script with Bolt, the script is transferred into a temporary directory on the remote system, run on that system, and then deleted.</p><p>You can run scripts in any language as long as the appropriate interpreter is installed on the remote system. This includes Bash, PowerShell, or Python.</p><ul><li><p>To run a script, specify the path to the script, and which nodes to run it on:</p></li></ul><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt script run &lt;PATH/TO/SCRIPT&gt; --nodes &lt;NODE NAME&gt;,&lt;NODE NAME&gt;,&lt;NODE NAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt script run ../myscript.sh --nodes web5.mydomain.edu,web6.mydomain.edu</codeblock><ul><li><p>When executing on WinRM nodes, include the WinRM protocol in the nodes string:</p></li></ul><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt script run &lt;PATH/TO/SCRIPT&gt; --nodes winrm://&lt;NODE NAME&gt; --user &lt;USERNAME&gt; --password &lt;PASSWORD&gt;</codeblock><ul><li><p>To pass arguments to a script, specify them after the command. If an argument contain spaces or special characters, you must quote it:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt script run myscript.sh 'echo hello'</codeblock><p>Argument values are passed literally and are not interpolated by the shell on the remote host. If you run <codeph>bolt script run myscript.sh 'echo $HOME'</codeph>, then the script receives the argument <codeph>'echo $HOME'</codeph>, rather than any interpolated value.</p></li></ul></body><topic id="requirements-for-scripts-run-on-remote-nix-systems"><title>Requirements for scripts run on remote \*nix systems</title><body><p>A script must include a shebang \(<codeph>#!</codeph>\) line specifying the interpreter. For example, for a script written in Bash, provide the path to the Bash interpreter:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">#!/bin/bash
echo hello</codeblock></body></topic><topic id="requirements-for-scripts-run-on-remote-windows-systems"><title>Requirements for scripts run on remote Windows systems</title><body><p>Bolt supports the extensions <codeph>.ps1</codeph>, <codeph>.rb</codeph>, and <codeph>.pp</codeph>. To enable other file extensions, add them to your Bolt configuration file, as follows:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">winrm:
   extensions: [.py, .pl]</codeblock></body></topic></topic><topic id="upload-files-or-directories-to-remote-nodes"><title>Upload files or directories to remote nodes</title><body><p>Use Bolt to copy files or directories to remote nodes.</p><p><b>Note:</b> Most transports are not optimized for file copying, so this command is best limited to small files.</p><ul><li><p>To upload a file or directory to a remote node, run the <codeph>bolt file upload</codeph> command. Specify the local path to the file or directory, the destination location, and the target nodes.</p></li></ul><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt file upload &lt;SOURCE&gt; &lt;DESTINATION&gt; --nodes &lt;NODE NAME&gt;,&lt;NODE NAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock xml:space="preserve">bolt file upload my_file.txt /tmp/remote_file.txt --nodes web5.mydomain.edu,web6.mydomain.edu</codeblock></body></topic></topic>