<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd"> <concept id="inventory-config-v2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">Inventory config</title><shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "> </shortdesc><prolog class="- topic/prolog "><author translate="no" type="creator" class="- topic/author ">Melissa Amos &lt;melissa.amos@puppet.com&gt;</author></prolog><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p ">You can set transport configuration only in the inventory file. This means using a top level <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">transport</codeph> value to assign a transport to the target and all values in the section named for the transport. You can set config on targets or groups in the inventory file. <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/bolt" class="- topic/ph "/> performs a depth first search of targets, followed by a search of groups, and uses the first value it finds. Nested hashes are merged. </p><p class="- topic/p ">This inventory file example defines two top-level groups:&#160;<codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">ssh_targets</codeph>&#160;and&#160;<codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">win_targets</codeph>. The&#160;<codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">ssh_targets</codeph>&#160;group contains two other groups:&#160;<codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">webservers</codeph>&#160;and&#160;<codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">memcached</codeph>. Five targets are configured to use ssh transport and four other nodes to use WinRM transport.</p><codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">groups:
  - name: ssh_targets
    groups:
      - name: webservers
        targets:
          - name: my_node1
            uri: 192.168.100.179
          - 192.168.100.180
          - 192.168.100.181
      - name: memcached
        targets:
          - 192.168.101.50
          - 192.168.101.60
        config:
          ssh:
            user: root
    config:
      transport: ssh
      ssh:
        user: centos
        private-key: ~/.ssh/id_rsa
        host-key-check: false
  - name: win_targets
    groups:
      - name: domaincontrollers
        targets:
          - 192.168.110.10
          - 192.168.110.20
      - name: testservers
        targets:
          - 172.16.219.20
          - 172.16.219.30
        config:
          winrm:
            user: vagrant
            password: vagrant
            ssl: false
    config:
      transport: winrm
      winrm:
        user: DOMAIN\opsaccount
        password: S3cretP@ssword
        ssl: true
</codeblock><section class="- topic/section "> 
            <title class="- topic/title ">Override a user for a specific target</title> 
            <p class="- topic/p "> 
                <codeblock class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">targets:
  - uri: linux1.example.com
    config:
      ssh:
        user: me</codeblock> 
            </p> 
        </section><section class="- topic/section "> 
            <title class="- topic/title ">Provide an alias to a target</title> 
            <p class="- topic/p ">The inventory can be used to create aliases to refer to a target. Aliases can be useful to refer to nodes with long or complicated names, like <userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">db.uswest.acme.example.com</userinput>, or for targets that include protocol or port for uniqueness, such as <userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">127.0.0.1:2222</userinput> and <userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">127.0.0.1:2223</userinput>. Aliases can also be useful when generating targets in a dynamic environment to give generated targets stable names to refer to.</p> 
            <p class="- topic/p ">An alias can be a single name or list of names. Each alias must match the regex <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">/[a-zA-Z]\w+/</codeph>. When using <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/bolt" class="- topic/ph "/>, you may refer to a target by its alias anywhere the target name would be applicable, such as the <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">--targets</codeph> command line argument or a <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">TargetSpec</codeph>. 
                <codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">targets:
  - uri: linux1.example.com
    alias: linux1
    config:
      ssh:
        port: 2222</codeblock></p> <p class="- topic/p ">Aliases must be unique across the entire inventory. You can use the same alias multiple places, but they must all refer to the same target. Alias names must not match any group or target names used in the inventory.</p>  
            <p class="- topic/p ">A list of targets may refer to a target by its alias, for example: 
                <codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">targets:
  - uri: 192.168.110.10
    alias: linux1
groups:
  - name: group1
    targets:
      - linux1</codeblock> 
            </p> 
        </section></conbody></concept>