<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//PUPPET//DTD DITA Puppet Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic concept)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                             (topic pr-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)   " id="concept-676" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">Naming tasks</title><shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">Task names are named based on the filename of the task, the name of the module, and the path to the task within the module.</shortdesc><prolog class="- topic/prolog "><author translate="no" type="creator" class="- topic/author ">Jean Bond &lt;jean@puppet.com&gt;</author></prolog><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p "> <draft-comment class="- topic/draft-comment ">Shared between Bolt and PE 2018.1+, except as noted </draft-comment> </p><p class="- topic/p ">You can write tasks in any language that runs on the target nodes. Give task files the extension for the language they are written in (such as <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">.rb</codeph> for Ruby), and place them in the top level of your module's <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">./tasks</codeph> directory.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Task names are composed of one or two name segments, indicating:</p><p class="- topic/p "><ul class="- topic/ul "><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p ">The name of the module where the task is located.</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p ">The name of the task file, without the extension.</p></li></ul></p><p class="- topic/p ">For example, the <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">puppetlabs-mysql</codeph> module has the <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">sql</codeph> task in <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">./mysql/tasks/sql.rb</codeph>, so the task name is <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">mysql::sql</codeph>. This name is how you refer to the task when you run tasks.</p><p class="- topic/p ">The task filename <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">init</codeph> is special: the task it defines is referenced using the module name only. For example, in the <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">puppetlabs-service</codeph> module, the task defined in <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">init.rb</codeph> is the <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">service</codeph> task. </p><p class="- topic/p "> <draft-comment class="- topic/draft-comment ">Paragraph removed in 2019.0.0, when sections below were added. &lt;Task names must be unique. If there are two tasks with the same name but different file extensions in a module, the task runner won't load either of them.&gt;</draft-comment> </p><p class="- topic/p ">Each task or plan name segment must begin with a lowercase letter and:</p><ul class="- topic/ul "><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p ">Must start with a lowercase letter.</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p ">May include digits.</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p outputclass="jean@puppet.com" class="- topic/p ">May include underscores.</p></li><li class="- topic/li "><p class="- topic/p ">Namespace segments must match the following regular expression <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">\A[a-z][a-z0-9_]*\Z</codeph> </p></li><li class="- topic/li ">The file extension must not use the reserved extensions .md or .json.</li></ul></conbody></concept>