<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd"> <concept id="concept-9775" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">Standalone modules</title><shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">Standalone modules can be published to the 

      

      

      

      

      

      

      <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/forge" class="- topic/ph "/> or saved in a shared code
repository so that modules can be used from multiple projects or shared
publicly. 
</shortdesc><prolog class="- topic/prolog "><author translate="no" type="creator" class="- topic/author ">Melissa Amos &lt;melissa.amos@puppet.com&gt;</author></prolog><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p ">To use a standalone module, <xref href="bolt_installing_modules.dita" class="- topic/xref ">install the module</xref> into the project directory.</p><p class="- topic/p ">To create a standalone module, run <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">pdk new module</codeph> outside of the project
directory, develop the module, then push it to a code repository or the Forge before using it in your project.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Follow these tips for managing standalone modules:

         

         

         

         

         

         <ul class="- topic/ul "><li class="- topic/li ">Add <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">modules/*</codeph> to <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">.gitignore</codeph> of your project to
prevent accidentally committing standalone modules.
            
            
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">When you run tasks and plans within a project directory, the modulepath (<codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">modules/</codeph> and <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">site-modules/</codeph>) is searched for modules
containing 

               <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/bolt" class="- topic/ph "/> content. If a module is found in <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">modules</codeph>, tasks and plans
from the version of the module in <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">site-modules</codeph> are ignored. Remove a module from <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">site-modules</codeph> if you convert it to a standalone module.
            
            </li><li class="- topic/li ">As a best practice, write automated tests for the tasks and plans in your module, if possible. For information about automated testing patterns, check out these resources: <xref href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-facts" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">Example of unit testing plans and integration 
              (acceptance) testing tasks</xref> (<ph conkeyref="ProductNames/github" class="- topic/ph "/>) and <xref href="https://puppet.com/blog/writing-robust-puppet-bolt-tasks-guide" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">Writing Robust Puppet Bolt Tasks: A Guide</xref> (<ph conkeyref="ProductNames/puppet" class="- topic/ph "/> blog).
               
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                 
               
            
            
            
            
            </li></ul></p></conbody></concept>